Carbon Design System
A design ecosystem for IBM products

<h3>Summary</h3>
	We built and maintained a system for both designers and developers of
        IBM products. So that products could be more easily maintained and end
        users would have a more consistent experience.
        The system includes a component library built using vanilla javascript
        and one for the React.js enviroment, design assets in a Sketch
        library, and a website with detailed documentation and usage
        guidelines.
	It received widespread adoption from thousands of developers working on
	a wide variaty of products and won recognition in the form of awards and
	references in books and articles.
<h3>Need</h3>
	At the time IBM Design consisted of several thousand designers. Which
        sounds like a lot! But at a company of over 300,000 employees that's
        actually not many. Theroetically design systems should have been
        helping IBM designers communicate their designs to the rest of the
        company. However, previous attempts at building design systems had
        never really taken off. When we researched this trend the problem was
        clear. The other attempts had primarily focused on static design
        assets and left engineers with the difficult task of translating them
        into code.
	
<h3>Process</h3>
	We began our research process by interviewing product teams who would
	be consuming our work. From those interviews we learned about their 
	experience with the status quo, what worked, and what didn't.

	When building a component library it would incredibly foolish not to
	learn from those who came before. With that in mind we studied libraries
	like Bootstrap, jQuery, Material Design, SalesForce Lighting, etc.
	Some of them like Bootstrap get a bad rap in the tech community but
	whatever their faults we learned a lot from them.

	We also did some surveys?

	As we gathered all this data we held team design workshops where we
	synthized our findings and started to build out a plan on how we
	could build a great design system.

<h3>Result</h3>
	Currently the Carbon Components package is averaging 31,529 downloads a *week* on NPM.
	In the new Smashing Mag book "Design Systems" it is referenced frequently.
	We won the HOW In House Design system award in 2017.
	And members of our team have spoken at conference all over the globe.
        awards, interviews, talks, smashing deisng book, massive adoption (npm stats)

What did I do?
	I worked on typography, visual rhythm and spacing, animtion, and UI components like complex data tables, slider input, date picker, overflow menu, pagination, and tooltips.
